Command Line Operation

VarroaPop has the capability to be run in a non-graphical mode to facilitate embedded operation.
This is typically done using the Start->Run button on the Windows desktop or from a script.
Command-line execution allows programmatic generation of results files and graphics files from a set
of input files.

The command-line syntax for VarroaPop is:

varroapop {session-file-name} {flags}

Where both session-file-name and flags are optional parameters.

Parameter definitions:

session-file-name

This is the fully-qualified path of a VarroaPop session file (.vrp).  The weather file that is
referenced by this session file must be located in the same directory as the session file.  If the
file is not found, an error is logged.

The session file is loaded when VarroaPop is first started and if the program is not running in
“background” mode (see “/b” flag below), the program awaits user input.  If the program is running
in background mode, the file is loaded and the simulation is run.


flags

Flags are immediately preceded by the forward slash (‘/’) character and may optionally have a
parameter following a separating space character.  The syntax is:  /[flag-string] {parameter-name}.
There are 5 flags: i – input file, og – output graph file, or – output results file;  ol – output
log file, and  b – backgound mode.

/i input-file-name The input-file-name is the fully qualified path for the input file.  The input
file is used to set the initial conditions of the session.  If used in conjunction with a command
line session file, the session file will be loaded first and the input file will modify only those
parameters identified in the input file.  If a session file is not used on the command line, the
input file will modify default values of a new session.  The format and contents of the input file
are contained in Section 9.

/og output-graph-file-name The output-graph-file-name parameter is the path to the destination
output graph of the simulation.  The filename can have an extension of either .bmp or .jpg which
will control the output graph format.  A .jpg file is much smaller than the .bmp file.

/or output-results-file-name The output-results-file-name parameter is the path to the destination
for the results file for the simulation.

/ol output-log-file-name The output-log-file-name parameter is the path to the destination for the
log file.  The log file is a text file containing any messages or errors that would be displayed on
a message box during program execution.  This file is particularly useful during background runs of
VarroaPop.

/b Background mode flag.  This flag causes VarroaPop to run in a non-graphical mode.  When executed
with the /b flag, VarroaPop will load any specified session file, load the input file, run a
simulation, output messages to the specified log file, output the graph to the output graph file,
output the numeric results to the results file, then terminate.
	


Input File Format

As described above, the command line arguments for VarroaPop can contain an input file flag
that specifies the name of a file used to set the values of the Initial Condition parameters.  This
file is a text file where each line contains a name/value pair, PARAMETER_NAME=VALUE.  The VALUE
string can be blank in which case the parameter value is not changed.  The order of the lines is not
important, duplicates can exist but since the file is processed sequentially from beginning to end,
the value of a later instance of a parameter will overwrite the previous value.  There is no error
checking to validate the values applied are appropriate or within allowed ranges so it is important
to validate the input file operation with your specific values.

The supported parameter names and example values are listed below:

WeatherFileName=Southwest.wth 
SimStart=4/1/1999 
SimEnd=12/31/1999 
ICDroneAdults=0
ICWorkerAdults=5000 
ICDroneBrood=2000 
ICWorkerBrood=2000 
ICDroneLarvae=2000 
ICWorkerLarvae=3000
ICDroneEggs=1000 
ICWorkerEggs=1000 
ICQueenStrength=4 
ICForagerLifespan=9 
ICDroneAdultInfest=10
ICDroneBroodInfest=20 
ICDroneMiteOffspring=1.5 
ICDroneMiteSurvivorship=100 
ICWorkerAdultInfest=15
ICWorkerBroodInfest=25 
ICWorkerMiteOffspring=1.7 
ICWorkerMiteSurvivorship=100 
PlotNone=true
PlotAD=true 
PlotAW=true 
PlotCS=true 
PlotDB=true 
PlotDE=true 
PlotDL=true 
PlotF=true 
PlotTM=true
PlotMDB=true 
PlotMWB=true 
PlotPDB=true 
PlotPWB=true 
PlotPRM=true 
PlotRM=true 
PlotWB=true 
PlotWE=true
PlotWL=true 
PlotIM=true 
DENone=true 
DESwarm= 
DEChalkbrood= 
DEResource= 
DESupercedure= 
DEPesticide=
ImmType=Polynomial 
TotalImmMites=10000 
PctImmMitesResistant=40 
ImmStart=06/01/1999 
ImmEnd=08/01/1999
ImmEnabled=false 
RQEggLayDelay=17 
RQWkrDrnRatio=3 
RQReQueenDate=09/01/1999 
RQEnableReQueen=true
RQScheduled=true 
RQQueenStrength=5 
RQOnce=true 
VTTreatmentDuration=5 
VTMortality=90 
VTEnable=true
VTTreatmentStart=08/01/1999 
InitMitePctResistant=5

added in 3.2.6.10:
InitColNectar=
InitColPollen=
SupPollenEnable=
SupPollenAmount=
SupPollenBegin=
SupPollenEnd=
SupNectarEnable=
SupNectarAmount=
SupNectarBegin=
SupNectarEnd=

All amounts are in grams, enables are "true" or "false" and the Begin and End parameters should be
expressed as a common US date format (e.g. 10/12/2016).

